Hello guys!

So recently, Lang Chen has come up with a lot of updates in their specific documentation in the recent

version and in this entire series of videos and in this module, we are going to see the various changes,

uh, which Lang has specifically come up with, you know, so here inside the documentation, if I just

go ahead and click on docs.

Okay.

So here you'll be able to see there is lang lang graph and Python.

So we will be covering all these things, all these modules uh again in an updated way so that we are

always up to date with Lang Chen documentation.

So first of all we will go ahead with Lang documentation over here.

Now here with respect to this particular documentation, uh, there are a lot of changes, uh, specifically

with respect to syntaxes, with respect to creating agents, you know, uh, how to integrate with multiple

different models, um, how to go ahead and call a tool, how to, you know, come up with a structured

output.

Along with that, it also has support of messages, you know, different types of messages like AI message,

human message, uh, tool, message.

Along with that, we'll also be seeing something called as short term memory.

We'll be seeing how to perform streaming.

You know, and there is a new concept, uh, that has basically come up with respect to middleware like

built in middleware, custom middleware, and we'll also be learning about guardrails and many more

things.

So in this entire series of video, we are first of all going to cover the entire Lang chain, a recent

framework, whatever the updates are there.

And, you know, and we are also going to use an amazing package which is called as UV Package Manager.

Now everybody, if you have heard about UV Package manager, this is an extremely fast Python package

and project manager and it is completely written in rust.

So I'll give you an idea how you can actually go ahead and work with UV package Manager.

And this is the entire installation.

You know how to probably go ahead step by step.

I'll be showing you how to how you can go ahead and create an environments.

Um, and along with this you can use any ID right.

There are also various IDs that are now available.

We have VS code.

We have cursor.

We also have Google anti-gravity.

Nowadays I'm actually specifically using Google anti-gravity also.

So uh, all these things we will try to cover and uh, our main aim is always to stay up to date with

respect to anything that is basically coming in Lang chain.

Okay.

So uh, from as we go ahead now, we will be covering this step by step and I will show you how, step

by step, how to go ahead and create an environment.

And we will just start with a specific new project itself.

So here you'll be able to see that I have already opened Google Anti-Gravity, which I will show you

in front of you.

Right.

And I've created a folder which is called as launch an updated.

Now we'll start from basics now Google Anti-Gravity.

Also you can go ahead and download it.

In order to download all you have to do is that just go ahead and search for Google anti-gravity okay.

And then this ID, this is like an agentic ID like how we have VS code, how we have cursor.

Right.

You can also download for windows.

This will be just be like a exe file.

And then once you go ahead and install this you will be able to start working on it.

So this is the ID that we are going to specifically work on.

The best part about this ID is like cursor.

You know, it provides access to agent and it also provides you completely for free.

Uh, I think for some number of requests, not for, uh, infinity requests.

Right.

But, uh, yes, with the help of agents, you will be able to write the code in a much more efficient

way.

Right.

So now as we go ahead, we will be covering, uh, the recent updated Lang chain version, and we'll

try to see that, how we can go ahead and create agents, how we can go ahead and work with tools,

each and everything.

So let's go ahead and start that.So guys, now let's go ahead and start with first of all creating a virtual environment.

And it is always a good practice that we start with creating a virtual environment.

And uh, for any kind of projects that we work with.

So the first thing is that we will try to create a virtual environment with the help of UV.

Okay, UV Package Manager.

But before we go ahead, you know, we need to install the UV package manager.

Right.

So how to go ahead and install it.

So if you just go ahead and search for UV package manager.

So this is the first link that you will be able to see it okay.

So once you click it here you'll be able to see the installation.

You have options for Mac OS Linux.

And you also have options for windows right.

So out of both of these options you can go ahead and do it.

So let's say that if you're using Mac OS or Linux you can use this command.

Uh, if you are using windows you can directly open a PowerShell and you can execute this command.

Right.

So how to open a PowerShell.

So first of all what I will do I'll copy this particular command.

And now I will go to my, um, you know, the ID, and here I will open my terminal.

The opening of the terminal is similar like VS code if you are using VS code till now.

Okay.

Now here inside this PowerShell see you have PowerShell option.

You have command prompt option.

So here inside this PowerShell you can just go ahead and paste this command and just press enter.

So once you press enter the UV package manager you know will get automatically installed.

Okay so I've already done that installation.

So I don't have to do it again.

But just to show it to you I have actually done it.

Okay.

Now I will remove this.

I will open my command prompt okay.

Or whatever.

Like let's say that you're using Mac OS.

Whether you're using Linux, you know it is up to you.

Whatever things you really want to use, you can go ahead and use it.

Okay.

So till then I will just go ahead and close this.

Now here the first step is that how do I go ahead and create my virtual environment with the help of

UV package.

Package manager.

So first of all, what I will do, I will initialize this entire folder as a working repository.

Now in order to initialize it, you know we will go ahead and use one command which is called as uv

init.

Okay.

So please make sure to remember this command.

If you want to go ahead and just initialize a working repository.

Let's say this is my working repository.

So first of all I will initialize it with the help of UV.

So for that I will just go ahead and write uv init command once I execute this.

So here you can see it has initialized the project which is called as lang chain updated.

So as soon as you initialize the working repository here you get some of the basic information right.

So here you will see Pyproject.toml.

This will give the information like which versions we are specifically working with.

So here we are working with Python 3.13.

So recent updated Python package manager later on.

Like let's say Python package is also getting updated.

You know, again, when you write UV in it, it will just take the recent Python version, okay.

And it is always a good practice to work with the written version.

That's the reason you can actually go ahead and directly use this.

Now along with that, you'll be seeing that a default main dot pi is basically there.

Then you also have something called as Python version file.

So here you can see that I'm getting 3.13 okay.

So all this information you can see over here in a very simple way.

Now the next thing what I will do is that I will just go ahead and write uv env.

Now see as soon as I write uv env and I put a slash.

Okay.

Now what this will do is that it will go ahead and create a virtual environment.

So once let me press enter.

So here you can see that uh unrecognized subcommand v and V slash.

So by default by mistake I've put this slash I should not have put that.

So what I will do, I will just write u, V, V and V.

Now, in order to create a virtual environment, this is the most simplest command.

Right u v v v.

As soon as I write u v v and v and I press enter.

So here you can see that.

Now it is using this Python 3.13.2.

And it has created a virtual environment at this specific location dot v env.

So dot v env is my virtual environment right now in order to activate it, see if as soon as you create

a virtual environment, you need to install the libraries inside that virtual environment right now

in order to install the specific libraries inside that virtual environment, I will first of all activate

that virtual environment.

Now, in order to activate it, the command is given over here.

See, it is written activate with dot v and V script slash activate.

So if you go inside the script there is something called as activate.

I just need to go ahead and call this particular or execute this particular command.

So what I will do, I will copy this over here, I will paste it over here and I will just execute it

as soon as I do that.

Here you can see that my light, my virtual environment right, is activated which is called nothing

but long chain updated.

So this virtual environment has got updated.

Okay.

Now the next step is that how do I go ahead and start the installation of all the libraries?

Okay.

Now installation of the libraries is very important.

Till now, uh, you know, uh, whenever we install a virtual libraries, you know, you also need to

make sure to keep an updated track of which version we are installing.

Right.

Uh, but now with the help of UV package manager, this is becoming very, very easy now.

Okay, so let's say that I go ahead and first of all create a requirements.txt file.

And please make sure to create that particular file outside dot venv folder.

So I will go ahead and write requirements.txt.

Now inside this I will be using some of the libraries.

Let's say one of the libraries that I'm using is Langton.

Then I have Langton Community.

Okay.

Langton community because I will be requiring this.

Okay.

Then I also have lang chain dash open AI because I want to use this Lang chain open AI.

I also have to use lang chain grok because I may also use grok models.

Then I also have Python dash dot env.

Right.

So I will also be using this.

Along with this I will also use lang chain slash Google Genia.

My main aim over here is to install all these libraries is very simple, because I want to show you

all the examples with different different libraries and all.

Okay.

So these are my default libraries.

And here you can see that it is also giving you some suggestions.

But don't go through that suggestion.

Go ahead and type each and everything in front of you.

Okay.

Now the time comes is that I have to go ahead and install all this particular libraries inside my virtual

environment.

Now here the best thing is that, see, I've not given any specific version.

We are going to work with the recent version of all these long chain libraries over here.

Now what is the recent version that also we will go ahead and check it out.

So here what I will do I will write UV add minus r requirements dot txt right.

So this is how you go ahead and do the installation.

See you can also go ahead and write uv pip install r requirements.txt.

You used to install all the requirements.

TXT by writing pip install r requirements.txt.

But with the help of UV you can just go ahead and write uv add minus r requirements.txt.

Now once I execute this.

So here you can see that all my installation will start happening.

Okay.

It will give you some warnings but it's okay.

We can skip this warnings.

Now here you can see by default all the libraries has got installed.

Now here you can also see all the version of this specific libraries that has got installed.

Now just by seeing this you will not be able to identify it.

So what I will do, I will go ahead and open this Pyproject.toml.

Now inside this you will be seeing that.

Okay.

Lang chain 1.1.0 has been installed.

And this is the recent version Lang chain community .4.1 is installed.

Lang chain Google generate 3.2.0 is installed and all the different libraries has been installed.

Now because of this, you will be at least able to identify it because I will also pass you this pyproject.toml

file to just get you understand that.

Okay, right now we are in this specific versions tomorrow.

Any number of updates that specifically comes, you don't have to actually worry about it.

You know.

At least you know which is the base version, right.

But my suggestion will be always that try to work with the recent version of Lang Chain because there

are many, many functionalities that will get deprecated.

Some of the functionalities may get moved to some other libraries and many more things.

Now this is where we have actually gone ahead and uh, you know, created, uh, installed all our libraries.

Okay, now the next thing is that I will also go ahead and create some keys.

Okay.

So I will be requiring three keys.

One is the Google API key.

So I will go ahead and write Google API key.

Okay so I will go to Google AI studio API key.

And here you can see this is my dashboard.

And there is an option which says create an API key.

So I will go ahead and select one of the project.

So let's say this is my project and I'll say okay this is my set key that I really want to go ahead

and create.

Or I will go ahead and name it as Lang Chain updated.

And I will just go ahead and create the key.

Okay.

Now you know how to create a keys, right?

At least that I think you should be familiar with.

I will go ahead and copy the API key.

Similarly I will go ahead with grok API key.

So I will write grok API key.

And here is my API keys okay.

And I will just go ahead and click on create API key.

And I can go ahead and create it right.

Similarly with respect to OpenAI APA.

So I have created all these keys and what I will do, I will quickly go ahead and create one file which

is called as dot env.

And I will go ahead and install paste this API keys over here.

Right.

So these are my API keys that I will be using for my project.

There is also one more library that I want to install for my Jupyter notebook.

That is nothing but UV add Ipykernel.

Okay, Ipykernel.

So Ipykernel you will be able to see that that is also install Ipykernel is just like a kernel provided

to the Jupyter notebook.

Again, let me repeat it guys.

Whenever you want to add any independent libraries, you use this command which is called as UV add

okay.

And then you give the library name okay, library name.

If you want to directly install it from the requirements.txt, then you can just go ahead and write

uv add minus r requirement dot txt.

Okay, it's just like you are doing the installation from requirement dot txt.

So in this video what we have actually done is that in this section we have created a virtual environment.

We have created a requirements.txt file which has all the recent libraries.

And we have installed it by using this command UV add minus requirements.txt.

Otherwise you can also go ahead and individually you can go ahead and install all the libraries by writing

UV.

Add the library name, whatever library name that you want.

Let's say you want to go ahead and install lang.

So here you can just go ahead and see that.

And here I have already installed it.

So it is showing me resolve this and that.

Right now in the next step, what we are going to do is that we will start working on our Lang chain,

uh, updated documentation, and we will start implementing agents.

We'll show you how you can go ahead and integrate different kind of models.

So let's go ahead and start with that.So, guys, now we have created a virtual environment.

Uh, we have done the installation of all the libraries that we require in our virtual environment,

uh, with the help of UV package manager.

Uh, you can also see all those things updated in Pyproject.toml file.

And here you can see all these libraries.

We are going to specifically use it okay.

Now you can also add your any descriptions that you specifically want to add also.

Now what we are going to do is that we will start with the updated Lang chain folder.

Okay so I've created a folder over here.

So let me first of all delete this and create a new folder.

So I will write updated lang chain okay.

And uh I will start with the first file which is called as lang chain intro dot ipynb file okay.

So let me minimize this.

I will go ahead and select the kernel I want.

Python environment dot v env.

Okay.

And we'll write a markdown saying that this is the lang chain version v one.

Okay I will just go ahead and write it and I will just go ahead and execute it.

Perfect.

Now just to check everything is working fine or not.

So I will also go ahead and open my code and I'll execute something okay.

So this is working.

The Python code is also working like one plus one is a kind of a numerical operation.

Now my dot env file is also been loaded.

Everything is ready.

So first of all as usual we will go ahead and import OS.

Then from dot env we are going to import load underscore dot env and we will go ahead and initialize

load underscore dot env.

And we will initialize our open API key.

So I will write OS dot environment.

And here you can see that I will go ahead and write open AI underscore API key.

So, uh, one thing about Google Anti-Gravity is that it provides you a lot of suggestion.

Okay.

So you will be seeing okay quickly when you're coding it, you'll quickly see all the suggestions that

is coming up.

Right.

So Os.getenv and open API key.

So I will go ahead and execute this.

So perfect.

Uh now the first thing that I'm just going to start okay.

Um, that is all about agents.

Okay.

Now first of all, you need to understand what exactly is agents.

So what I will do, I will just open my file over here.

I will create a new file so that I write something to you so that you get an understanding.

Okay.

See, uh, before, uh, you know, when we started working, right?

When initially we got generative AI.

At that time, generative AI is becoming very, very much as an important topic.

But nowadays everybody is specifically talking about a gents.

Okay, so everybody is talking about agents and agents is altogether a very, very handy topic.

Okay.

Very, very important and handy topic altogether.

So initially if you go ahead and see, you know, initially we were just talking about LM models.

So let's say that this is what one of my LM model.

Now the LM model can be anything.

It can be an OpenAI LM model.

It can be a generative AI, LM model.

It can be, uh, you know, grok LM model, any open source LM models.

The main task of the LM model was that, uh, whenever we give any kind of input, right, input, let's

say if I go ahead and ask, hey, uh, write me a paragraph about artificial intelligence.

So LM will take that particular input and then it will give you a specific output.

It will give you a specific output like okay, if I'm asking, write a paragraph 200 words paragraph

on artificial intelligence, it will give me a 200 words paragraph as an output.

Okay.

This was a simple generative AI application okay.

I used to say this as a gen AI application.

So gen AI application okay.

Application.

Perfect.

But now as we move ahead, you know, so let's say that for this particular LM model, if I ask a question,

hey, provide me with the current AI news or today's current AI news.

So let's say that I want to know the today's today's AI news AI news okay.

Now in this particular scenario, you know that LM has a cut off training.

Training date.

Okay, so we basically say that LM is already trained from previous data.

It does not have the current information.

Right.

Recent information like let's say tomorrow's or today's information it does not have.

Right.

So LM has to be dependent on some third party tool.

Why it should be dependent on third party tool.

Because when I'm asking this specific question or tell me about the today's AI use, LM does not have

that particular information.

Right.

Because it is already trained with the previous data.

It is not trained with today's data.

And there is always a cut off training date.

Right.

This is really really important for you to understand.

So this is one of the problem of just using a plain LM now.

That's the reason whenever we say that if we need to answer, if my LM needs to answer this particular

question, it needs to be dependent on some third party tool.

Some tool.

Okay.

Whenever we say some tool that it can be a third party tool.

It can be any kind of tool.

Okay.

It can be a third party APIs.

It can be Google Search.

It can be something else.

Right.

And based on this particular tool, what should happen is that whenever we give an input saying that

today's AI, what are the today's AI news, the LLM should be able to make a decision.

Okay.

I will not be able to answer this particular question.

So now I am dependent on some other tool which will be able to answer this particular question, because

this tool is currently connected to the current data or current.

Like today's news, it is basically connected to right?

Specifically AI news.

And this will be able to give me the response and this response that you basically get from here.

It is basically called as context, right.

And then only the LLM will be able to generate the output.

Right.

So in this particular scenario where we have a LLM being dependent on some other tool, and from where

we are basically getting a context.

As soon as we give an input, the LLM is able to make a decision.

Okay, I'm not able to answer this.

I have to be probably dependent on that tool.

Which tool will be able to answer this particular question and will be able to give the context and

generate the output.

So this is nothing, but it is a basic agent.

It is a basic ant okay.

It is a basic agent.

This is the simple functionality of an agent okay.

So that is what an agent is all about.

So I hope till now you have got a clear understanding what a basic agent looks like.

Right.

So autonomously here you can see that it is able to make any kind of a simple decision, like when to

route what kind of query and how to probably solve that particular task.

Okay.

So, uh, whenever we talk with respect to an agent before creating an agent with the help of Long Chain

was a little bit tough, you know.

So before we used to use an LM model, then we used to create a tool separately.

Then we had to probably go ahead and do a linkage between this particular tool to the LM.

We used to use a architecture which is called as react architecture.

Okay.

React architecture.

Now with the help of this particular architecture, we were building this specific agent.

But now creating this agent has become simpler with the recent long chain version that is launching

version one.

Okay.

So now let me go ahead and show you that how we can quickly create an agent, uh, and how easy it is

basically to create an agent.

So first of all, in order to create an agent, what we will be doing is that we will just go ahead

and define something called as from lang chain okay.

Lang chain dot agents we import something called as create underscore agent okay.

Create underscore agent.

Now as soon as we write like this dot agents create underscore agent.

Here we go ahead and define agent is equal to create agent.

And inside this first of all we give our model name.

Now model name can be given through different ways.

So directly if I'm importing the OpenAI library I will be giving the model name.

Let's say my model name is GPT five, which is the recent, uh, you know, specific OpenAI model.

And then I will go ahead and use tools.

So right now I will keep this tools and empty because I don't have any other tools created yet.

Okay.

And then apart from this tool we also provide some kind of system prompt.

So here I will go ahead and write my system prompt saying that hey you are a helpful assistant okay.

And then we have also kept verbose is equal to true.

I will talk about what is verbose okay.

It will give you more information with respect to the invocation.

Now as soon as I go ahead and just run or write this.

So here you can see it got an unexpected keyword argument.

I think verbose is not supported yet for this, so let me remove it.

Okay.

Now let me just go ahead and execute this agent.

Now you'll be able to see some kind of diagram over here okay.

And that diagram will definitely match this diagram that we have created okay.

So this is how we basically go ahead and create a basic agent.

But right now you can just see that tools is right now empty okay.

So what we have we have start we have model and we have end.

So that basically means we just have this input and output.

Still that tool connection is not there because we have not created any tool.

Right.

So now what I will do, I will just go ahead and define one function.

So let's say this is my get weather function.

I will give my city over here which will be in the form of string.

And this will also return String.

Okay.

And here I will just say return.

The weather in this city is sunny.

That's it.

Okay.

I can also provide some docstring to provide some more information related to this particular function.

It's like get the weather for a city.

Okay.

And now the same tool I can add it over here.

So that basically means if I ask what is the weather of Bangalore now, the aluminum will be much more

smarter enough to know that which tool it needs to call.

Right?

So now what I have done is that we have created a function which is called as, which is called as get

weather.

Okay.

So here what we have done is that we have created a function which is called as get weather.

And this get weather is added as a tool to this particular element.

Okay.

Now if I ask hey what is the weather for this particular city?

Now the LM will make a decision.

It will not have the current information, obviously.

Right.

Because it is already trained with the previous data.

So it knows that it has to call this get weather function or tool right.

And then it will try to get the context.

The context is nothing but whatever this function is returning, that is the context.

And finally it will be generating the output.

Okay.

Now see this as soon as I created a function get weather and I updated inside this tools.

Right now I have this tool that is available.

Now you see how this agent diagram will change.

Now you can see that right?

So now I have start the model which is my LM.

And this is basically connected to my tools.

Now whenever I ask any question with respect to whether this model will definitely go ahead and hit

the tool, get the response and it will display as the output.

Now in order to run the agent, it is very simple.

I will go ahead and run the agent over here and running the agent is very simple.

I will write agent dot invoke, agent dot invoke.

And let's say that I will go ahead and you know just write.

What is the weather like in New York?

I know this is not going to give me New York weather, because here I'm just returning a simple string.

But just imagine that here we had some API calls that was basically made in order to get the weather

information.

And here we can display that particular information.

So now if I go ahead and execute this clearly you will be able to see that I'm getting one error.

Let's see.

Uh expected dictionary okay.

So this is not the right format to give it.

The simple reason is that we need to give it in the form of a messages.

So I will write messages colon okay.

And then I will give it in the form of a role like role is like user because it is a user message.

Human message.

We will talk more about this.

Different types of messages as we go ahead.

But right now I just want to show you how you can go ahead and run this particular agent.

So role is equal to user and content.

We are writing what is the weather like in New York.

Now if I'm giving in this form you see the error is very simple over here that you have got expected

dictionary.

So whenever we are using this inbuilt function called as create agent for creating the agent, in this

particular scenario, we have to give the input in the form of a dictionary, where in my dictionary

key will be in the form of a messages.

Okay.

Here if I'm writing messages and I'm executing this.

So here you can see I'm given the role is equal to user and content.

What is the weather like in New York.

So if I go ahead and execute it now you'll be able to clearly see the response guys, I'm showing you

the error.

I will not cut that particular error part because I want to show you each and everything.

Okay.

So now what is the weather like in New York?

So first of all, this was the human message that has gone.

You can also give it in the form of human message.

We'll discuss more about the messages as we go ahead.

Then here you can see the AI message is making a tool call.

So somewhere here you will be able to see that it has made a tool call.

So let me just go in and see it.

Uh, somewhere here you can see that it has made a tool call.

And it also knows which tool to call.

Right get whether because it has this particular information.

Now the question arises that how does LLM model knows that it has to make a get whether tool call.

Because when we define this particular function get whether we have also put a docstring right.

And when we are assigning this tool to this particular agent, this docstring the LLM will understand

which is the docstring over here.

Like get the weather for a city.

Now it knows that it will go ahead and call this particular function right.

So it made a tool message.

So here you can see the weather in New York is sunny.

It has just taken this particular uh city data.

and it is basically giving you the output like Sonny.

Right?

And then finally you can see the AI message, it's sunny in New York, right?

So once you get the context from the tool, the model will be displaying the output.

Right.

So if you want to also display the output over here, you can just go ahead and write.

Response is equal to agent this one.

And then I will just go ahead and write response off messages messages.

Right.

So you can see messages.

And then you can just go ahead and take the last message dot content.

And here you should be getting the output right.

So when you write messages last one you will be getting the last output.

If you remember if you remove this also you'll be getting the entire conversation at all.

Right.

Let me also show you one more way.

You can also directly go ahead and write like this agent dot invoke.

And here you can write in the form of messages.

And here you can just go ahead and write something like this.

What is the what is the weather in New York?

So let's see whether we'll be able to get the output or not like this.

Also, you can directly write you don't need to even specify that whether it is an human message or

not, it will automatically identify it.

Okay.

So now here you'll be able to see that.

And there is a small spelling mistake.

And here also you can see that I'm getting output okay.

And this is really really good.

Even though I made a spelling mistake it is being able to give me the right output also.

Okay so that's the most amazing part out there.

So I hope you got a very basic idea of how to create an agent.

What was an agent?

We basically say this as an autonomous agent because based on the input the model is taking the decision

which tools to call get the context and give you the output.

Right.

So everything is happening over here, but as we go ahead we will be creating multiple tools.

So this is one of the tool like that.

We can go ahead and create any number of tools as we like.

Okay.

So this was just a basic way of creating an agent with the recent version.

Now which version we are talking with.

Right.

So I will write import lang chain and import lang chain.

And I will just go ahead and print lang chain dot underscore underscore version underscore.

Right.

So it is 1.1.0.

So I hope uh in this video we have understood about agents basic agents.

Right.

Uh, agents are like, you know, autonomously.

It will be doing the specific task that is assigned to it.

So yeah, in the next video now we will see how to integrate different, different models.

We will talk about different kind of messages each and everything.

And as we go ahead like in this series we will be discussing about that.

So let's go ahead and discuss the next thing that is model integration.So now we are going to discuss about these two important topics, which is called as streaming and batch.

Okay.

Now why streaming and batch is important.

So let's say that I go ahead and write model dot invoke.

You know how to invoke a specific model.

Right.

And let's say that I say hey write me a 200 words paragraph on artificial intelligence.

So let's say if I am asking this question to my model or to my LLM right, and here you will be seeing

that we have to wait for the response to get generated and be displayed over here.

Right.

So this usually happens in invoke, right.

But it is always a good practice that we try to stream the output as soon as, as soon as it is generated

from the LLM.

Right.

So and that is where streaming can be very, very handful.

So here you can see most model can stream the output content while it is being generated.

Now in this particular case we had to wait till the LM completely generated the content and then finally

displayed the output.

But in the case of streaming, what we do is that we can also stream the output of the LM model while

it is being generated.

So by displaying the output progressively streaming significantly improves user experience, particularly

for long responses.

So for this we have to use this function which is called as stream okay.

This returns an iterator that yields output chunk from the LM.

And they also display it over here.

So let's try to see that how this stream will basically work.

Right now in order to do or work with streaming we will be using this inbuilt function called as model

dot stream.

Okay.

And let's say now I go ahead and ask hey write me a 200 words paragraph okay.

On artificial intelligence.

So let's display this right now okay.

Let's execute this.

So here you can see that it is creating a generator object.

But our main aim is that this is of a stream type, right?

We also need to display the output from the stream.

So what I will do I will use a for loop.

So I'll say for chunk in model dot stream.

And let's display sorry.

Let's display the stream output okay.

So here I will go ahead and print.

And I'll just go ahead and write chunk dot text.

Now let's display this.

Now here you can see that once we go ahead and execute this, it did not wait for the entire content

to be generated.

So what we have done is that as the content is being generated from the LLM, the LLM is giving you

the output.

It is also getting displayed over here.

Okay.

In a much more better way for you all.

To see what I will do.

I will use some special character to just, you know, to just show you the content that is basically

generated.

So I will use this two parameter and is equal to.

That basically means I'm using some kind of delimiter over here as soon as any token is generated from

the LM and we are also going to use flush is equal to true.

Okay.

Now see the output I've written.

Write me a 200 word paragraph.

And here you can see that we are generating this particular text.

And this text is basically getting generated over here okay.

Now let's try some more, uh, some more good things inside this, uh, instead of just writing like

this, you know, I will also go ahead and, uh, you know, just try to display something over here.

So let's go ahead and do this.

And here you can see that I'm just writing.

Why do parrots have colorful feathers?

Okay.

Feathers.

So now it is going to print the chunk dot text.

And here you can see that paragraph by paragraph as the content is basically getting generated it is

also being displayed in the output.

So this is an example of stream.

And the main thing is that you can stream the output from the LM while it is being generated.

Right.

So we don't have to wait till the entire text is generated.

Now if I go ahead and ask the same question over here.

So let's say I go ahead and ask the same question.

And here instead of, you know.

Why do parrots have colorful feathers?

If I just go ahead and use model dot invoke.

So here what I will do I'll remove all these things okay.

I will remove all these things.

And we will try to generate it by using model dot invoke.

Now see we have to wait for the output.

Okay.

Model dot invoke.

It is giving me some syntax.

No worries, I'll fix it now.

See?

I'll wait for the output.

I'm waiting, waiting, waiting.

And then finally the response gets generated right.

Once the entire response is output is created, then only it will get generated.

But in this case of streaming as it is generated, we are also able to see okay.

Now similarly, there is also one more concept which is called as batch okay.

Now batch is a collection of independent requests to a model which can significantly improve performance

and reduce cost as the processing can be done in parallel.

Now there may be scenario that you may have multiple inputs.

So let's say I will go ahead and create some kind of response.

See, I'm using model dot batch function.

Inside this I have a list of inputs like.

My first question is why do parrots have colorful feathers?

I'm writing how do airplanes fly?

What is quantum computing?

Now I have three different questions, and I want to send all this question as an input to the model

in a parallel way.

Right.

I want the output parallely.

Right.

So that is what it is over here you can see batch is a collection of independent requests to a model

which can significantly improve performance and reduce cost as the processing can be done parallel.

So if I'm giving three inputs, this will go parallelly to the model and generate the output.

So let's go ahead and see the output.

Now here you can see uh, all these three questions has gone together by using this model dot batch.

And automatically you will be able to see all the output all at once.

Okay.

Three responses it will generate and you are able to see the output all at once.

Similarly, I can also set one more parameter inside this, which is basically called as max currency.

Right.

So there is a config parameter which you can basically add along with this model dot batch functionality,

which says that how many parallel calls you can actually make.

So here you can go ahead and set it max concurrency equal to five.

And then probably go ahead and do it right.

So anyhow my questions are three.

If I'm giving 1010 different questions all at a time.

So it will take five five.

And then it will probably send it to the LM and generate the output.

Right.

So I hope you got a very clear idea about streaming and batch.

And this is necessary because if you are working for any company developing chatbots, most of the time

you are definitely going to use streaming.

But there may be scenarios that you also want to probably go ahead and use batch functionality.

So I hope you like this particular video.

So I hope you have understood this.

Now let's go ahead towards the next section wherein we are going to understand about tools creation.So guys, till now we have already discussed about streaming and batch.

And along with this we also saw the model integration, like how you can go ahead and integrate different

kind of LMS with the help of two important functionality or two important libraries.

One is init chat model, and you can see that we have also used chat, grok chat, OpenAI and uh, along

with that we also had chat Google generative AI.

Right now it's time that we move towards one more step ahead, and we talk about how to go ahead and

work with tools.

So if you remember, we had discussed about a simple agent, right?

In an agent, basically an LLM will be connected to a tool.

Now this tool is just some kind of functionality.

It can be a API request.

It can be a inbuilt tools.

It can be news reporting tools.

It can be Google search engine tool.

It can be any kind of independent functionality tool.

Right now in this series of videos now we are going to understand like how we are going to go ahead

and create tools, right?

So first of all, what I will do, I will go ahead and create a ipynb file.

And here you can see tools definition is basically given model can request to call tools that perform

tasks such as fetching data from a database, searching the web, or running code.

Tools are pairing off a schema including the name of the tool, argument and definition, and function

or coroutine to execute.

So here what we are basically going to do is that, first of all, I will show you how you can basically

create a tool, right in a simple way.

So first of all, as usual I will use one of my LM model.

The LM model that we are going to use is Grok Quinn 332 and here you can see that I am also able to

invoke the model.

This we have already learned in the previous section.

Right.

So inside this response you will be able to understand like what is the response that you are getting

from the LM.

But with this particular model, I need to integrate some tool.

Okay.

Now, in order to integrate what tool, I will first of all create.

And what is the basic schema definition for creating a tool.

So whenever we need to create a tool, first of all I will go ahead and you know use a import function

from Lang Dot tools.

I will import something called as tool okay.

Now this tool library that we are importing over here will be used as a decorator.

So when we use this as a decorator on top of any function, that function will actually become a tool

in lang chain okay.

So here first of all we'll write out the tool.

I will go ahead and define my function.

Let's say this function is nothing but get weather.

Now inside this get weather I will be using a variable which is called as location.

And this will give you a string type.

Okay.

And here I will also go ahead and define see if you see the definition.

Whenever we talk about tool, it is nothing, but it is pairing of schema including the name of a tool,

description and or argument definition.

So here I am going to go ahead and provide some docstring.

Now this docstring will play a very important role.

I will talk about it okay.

So I'll say at a location okay.

So get whether at a location.

Now this definition, this schema that we have or this docstring that we have defined over here, this

is important because when we bind this tool with the LLM, the LLM will be able to identify the functionality

of this particular function.

Okay.

What exactly it is doing from this particular docstring.

Okay.

So that's the reason we have written this docstring.

So now I will go ahead and say return.

And here you can write any functionality that you want okay.

So let's say I'm hard coding right now.

The temperature.

What you can actually do is that you can go ahead and hit a API request or database request over here

and get the information.

So I'll write it's sunny in this specific location, which location I'm actually using.

Okay.

By default I'm saying it's sunny.

Okay.

Now this is done, right?

I have a tool over here.

Now this tool needs to be binded with my model.

Right.

So if you see over here, if I want to bind this LM with this particular tool, how do I do it.

Okay.

So for that I will be using model dot bind tools okay.

So bind tools.

And here we are basically going to use this particular tool which is called as get underscore weather

okay.

Get underscore weather.

And here we can go ahead and write model underscore with underscore tools.

Now this is one way okay.

The other way is that what we have learned right.

We can directly use this.

We can use this function right.

Create agent give the model name give the tools.

And automatically this will get created right that we have already shown.

And this is one of the functionality which we used to use before.

Also that is nothing but binding tools.

Okay.

Now once I bind this tool, the next thing is that.

How do I call this?

Okay.

See, now, in order to call it, I will say model with tools dot invoke.

What's the weather like in Boston and here?

Now I can go ahead and iterate through this response tool call, see if I just go ahead and print the

response.

First of all you'll be able to see.

I'll print this response.

Now when we are printing this response here, you will be able to see that the reasoning content is

this the user is asking for about the weather in Boston.

I need to use the get weather function.

See automatically.

Now LM is able to make a decision that what functionality needs to be called.

And here you can see that we are also printing the tool calls that it is doing.

So tool call of name is nothing but weather and argument.

It is basically requirement is nothing but location.

Okay so this is the most simplest way of, you know, uh, working with a tool.

Just directly go ahead and use a decorator, provide some kind of schema or docstring and just go ahead

and bind it with the tool.

Either you can do like this, or if you're directly creating an agent, you just define that particular

schema and means the function.

And then you use this create agent with the model name with the tool name.

And here you will be able to get it right.

This is the most simplest way okay.

Now I really want to show you one more important technique which is called as tool execution loop.

Tool execution loop.

Now see first of all inside this what I will do I will paste this code.

Now see initially we set up a message from the role user saying that the user is sending the message

what's the weather in Boston?

Now we are using model with tools dot invoke off message.

Then here I will be getting my message and inside this message we are also appending this particular

message.

And you know inside this I message it will be nothing but it will be a tool call.

Right?

We are making a tool call which is nothing but weather data, right?

We are making a tool call over here right now for tool calls in AI message dot tool calls.

Now that get weather dot invoke of tool call, we are doing.

See, at the end of the day, if you see whenever we make a tool call we are basically calling get weather

and internally we are using this get weather dot invoke of tool call so that we get the response from

this.

See over here, if I go ahead and show you when we are making the tool call, the tool call will go

ahead and provide us the output that is nothing but the context.

And with the help of this particular code, get weather dot invoke of tool call.

We are getting the tool results and that also we are appending it inside our message.

And finally you will be able to see the message text.

Since we are using model with tool dot invoke.

Now see I will execute this step by step.

You'll be seeing the weather in Boston is sunny, right?

And if you go ahead and just see this messages section, messages section, you should be able to see

the role, the AI message that you got and the tool message like when the tool got executed.

It is giving this particular response.

It's sunny in Boston.

So when model with tools dot invoke it is going.

It is basically getting the context from the tool and it is displaying the output right.

So that's easy with respect to the tool execution loop.

Okay.

So I hope you got an idea with respect to tools very basic way of creating this.

Now the main thing is that internally you can write any definition you want to use inbuilt tools that

are available in Lang chain.

You can directly go ahead and write the code.

The most important thing is that what response you are basically generating out of that particular tool,

right.

So this was a quick revision on understanding about how you can actually specifically work with a tool.

So now as we go ahead now we are also going to discuss about one more, uh, important thing that is

called as messages.

Now what are the different types of messages.

There is something called as system message AI message human message.

So that part we will go ahead and discuss it.

So yes let's go ahead and discuss about that.So guys, till now we have covered various topics specific to tools and how you can integrate tools

with the LM models.

Um, and probably go ahead and create a generative AI application.

Now we are going to move towards our next topic which is called as messages.

Right.

And messages, uh, in short, are a very important data structures that can be specifically used with

long chain.

Uh, I will I have written the definition.

I will go ahead and write the code in front of you.

Each and everything will discuss step by step.

So first of all, the messages are the fundamental unit of context for models in long chain.

They represent the input and output of a model carrying both the content and metadata need to represent

the state of a conversation when interacting with an LM, messages are object that contain role content

and metadata.

Role is super important okay.

Role basically identifies the message type.

Now, first of all, what I'll do is that in order to show you the messages, till now we have discussed

in various places, right.

You can see that I'm getting an output with respect to tool.

So this is one kind of message.

Whenever you see an output from a specific model right.

Like here we have written model dot invoke on a specific question.

The model when it is giving its output will be in the form of a message.

So whenever a model gives an output, it is basically a message.

Whenever a human is giving an input, it is nothing but a human message.

So there are different kind of message structures that we are going to see.

There are specifically three types which we are going to discuss one by one.

Okay.

So first thing first, what I am actually going to do.

First of all I will go ahead and initialize my model.

Okay.

Now you know how to initialize your model.

So I have imported OS from lang chain dot chat underscore model import init chat model.

I'm using the grok API key as my environment variable and then we have used in a chat model with this

model from grok.

Okay.

So I'll go ahead and execute this.

Now see this is really important okay.

Whenever I go ahead and write model dot invoke on any specific input.

Okay.

So let's say I'll say uh please tell me what is artificial intelligence.

Okay.

So this is my question.

Now by default when I give this specific input to the model, this is treated as a human input or a

human message.

So once I execute this, this as an input to the LM is going as an input, which is nothing but a human

message.

And when I want to see the output, I'll just go ahead and execute this.

Now my output will be basically an output from the LM, which is nothing but an AI message.

And the content that is inside this is the output from the LM model okay.

Now this is what a simple message basically looks like now two things we have discussed about human

message.

AI message.

I will do deep dive more into it and probably talk more about it okay.

But first of all, before going to human message AI message, we will start with a text prompt.

Okay.

So text prompt are nothing, but they are strings ideal for straightforward generation task where you

don't need to retain conversation history okay.

Now here you can clearly see that whenever I'm writing model dot invoke with some specific question

okay.

So here when I'm writing model dot invoke with some question, let's say I'll say what is lang chain

okay.

Now in this particular scenario I have not specified anything to the model like how the model should

behave.

Right.

I'm just providing a simple text.

Right.

This text is treated as a human message internally, but I can also say this as a text prompt okay.

So ideal for straightforward generation task where you don't need to retain any conversation history.

Let's say that I just want to give an input and get an output from the model.

So in this particular scenario I will just go ahead and use this phenomenon.

Right.

So when I say model dot invoke what is lang chain?

I will directly get an output in the form of a message.

Okay.

Now use text prompts.

When you have a single standalone request, you don't need conversation history.

You want minimal code complexity.

And all right now we will see in the different type like one more category which is called as message

prompts.

So here we have seen about text prompts and text prompts.

I just specify my input.

I get the output from the model.

So now we will try to understand how is message prompts different than the text prompt?

Okay, now here we will first of all see the definition.

Alternatively, you can pass messages in the list of messages to the model by providing a list of message

object.

Okay, now you need to first of all understand if I want to provide a list of messages, it can be a

human message.

It can be an AI message.

It can be a system message.

Now you should understand what exactly is a system message?

System message is just like an instruction, like how the LM should behave.

Okay, again let me repeat it.

What is a system message?

It is nothing, but it is a kind of instruction to the LM, like how it should basically behave.

So in the case of message types, you have different messages like system message, human message,

AI message and tool message.

First of all, we will understand the definition of system message.

System message tells the model how to behave and provide context for interaction.

Human message is nothing, but it represents user input and interaction with the model.

AI message is nothing but response generated by the model, including text, content, tools and metadata.

Tool message represents the output of a tool call.

Okay, so all this information is basically over here.

So here you can see system message definition human message AI message and tool message.

So let's go ahead and see this particular example.

Okay.

So first of all what I will do I will go ahead and import all these messages types.

So in order to import I will use from login dot messages import system message human message comma ai

message.

Okay, now I will create a list of messages.

Let's say that I am having a conversation history also.

So that's the reason I'm creating this list of messages.

So let's say first of all I use a system message.

Now this system message is just like an instruction to the LM model, like how the LM model should behave.

So I'll go ahead and write.

You are a poetry expert okay.

So this is my first message.

Let me go ahead and write human message over here in the human message I will go ahead and say, uh,

this will be an human input.

I'll say, write and write a poem on artificial intelligence.

Okay.

Artificial intelligence because in chat bot, usually this kind of conversation happens in a conversation

history, right.

There'll be a list of messages that will be happening.

So let's say here, uh, I give the output or let's say I give this to information like system message

and a human message.

Okay.

So this is my list of messages.

Now I'll use model dot invoke and I'll give this messages over here okay.

Over here I'll get it.

And I'll go ahead and get my response.

Now let me do one thing.

Let me go ahead and print my response.

Dot content okay.

Now see this.

Both the messages are basically going okay.

First is the instruction to the LM like how you should basically go ahead and uh, act like I'm saying

you are a poetry expert.

And then probably I've given the input and based on this input, I will be getting my AI message as

output.

Okay.

The user wants a poem about artificial.

And let me start thinking about the key themes related to AI creating experts, how humans build AI

then maybe do.

And all this information is basically there and you're getting the output.

Okay, so this is what a simple, uh, you know, a list of messages prompts look like.

Okay, here we can pass a list of messages in the form of a conversation history.

Here I can also go ahead and write.

I provide AI messages over here and probably go ahead and try it out.

Okay, now let's see some more important thing right here.

The kind of examples that you have seen is with respect to a system message okay.

This was just a basic message itself, right?

You just have a one liner.

Let me see one more example.

So here I've written system message I'm writing.

You are a helpful coding assistant.

I've given this messages list human message as an input.

How do I create a rest API right.

And now you can also see this specific response.

It will go ahead and try to create a rest API.

So here you can see all the information okay.

The user is asking.

All this information is basically creating a Rest.

API endpoint involves defining endpoints that handle this and that all the information is there.

Okay, so that basically means we are able to get a good answer now.

Till now, the system message that we have specified is just a one liner message.

Sometime we want a detailed information provided in the system message so that we give more information

to the LMS.

Right.

So what we will do I will show you one more example where we give detailed information, detailed info

to the LM through system message okay.

System message.

So let's see this example.

So this example is also really good.

So here now I will say like this.

Now see inside this we have provided a system message.

I'm saying you are a senior Python developer with expertise in web frameworks.

Now more context is basically given here.

Before that I've just told that hey you are a helpful coding assistant.

We have not specified any specific programming language like Python, Java, you know, it can be C,

C++, anything as such.

Right.

I've just provided a generic information.

The answer was also very generic.

Okay.

But in this particular scenario you can see that I've provided a detailed information.

Your assistant senior Python developer with expertise in web frameworks always provide code examples

and explain your reasoning.

Be concise but thorough within your explanation.

Now I wrote how do I create a rest API?

The same thing.

Now you see the response.

The response will be much more practical and it will be related to definitely Python.

So if you go ahead and see this here, you can see start the steps choosing flask install it, the code

example.

Everything is over here and a lot of messages are over here.

Disable debug mode in production, add input validation and all right.

So you can clearly see that if you provide more information inside the system uh message we will be

able to get more proper response okay.

Now this is what a Simple Things is right now.

I have also told you that whenever we provide the messages, we can also provide this three important

information.

One is role, content and metadata.

Role basically identifies the message type, whether it is system, user or human.

Content represents the actual content of the messages.

It can be text, audio and documents.

Metadata is something like an optional fields.

Okay, so let's say that I want to go ahead and define some kind of human message over here okay.

My my human message with some metadata.

So here you can see content is hello name is Alice ID is message 123.

So here you can see we are providing two metadata information.

One is for identifying for different users and one is uniquely identified for tracing.

So this is basically for tracing you know so that we can go ahead and trace it.

Now if I go ahead and see the response, see if I go ahead and just use model dot invoke on this human

message, you should be able to see the response.

So the user said hello.

So I should be in a very friendly way, it will be able to probably provide the response based on the

metadata information also that we specifically have.

Okay, now this is just a specific idea about how you can play with system message, human message.

Uh, you know, you can also have uh, AI messages.

You we have also spoken about the list of messages that you really want to work on.

Right?

Right.

Let's see one more example.

Okay.

Now this example is also amazing.

So here you can see I've written from Langton dot messages I've imported AI message system message,

human message AI messages that I'd be happy to help you with the question okay, create an AI message

manually.

We have created it.

Okay.

This is not generated by AI itself, but we are creating our own message and we are assigning a label

as AI message.

Now I'm adding all the information into the conversation history.

So let's say you are a helpful assistant have written as a human input.

Initially we have written can you help me?

AI message is nothing, but I'd be happy to help you with that question.

Human message What is two plus two?

Now, this entire list of conversation can be also understood by the LM, and based on this, it should

also be able to give you the output.

So here you can see clearly how the output is right.

First two plus two is four.

That's straightforward but may I should I explain this.

This.

So this is a reasoning model that we have specifically used.

Right.

So that's the reason it is providing a lot of reasoning stuff and all.

Now inside this can I also go ahead and see my metadata.

So in order to see the metadata so I can write response dot metadata okay.

Or usage metadata.

And here you can see that you'll also be able to get the information like how much was the input token,

how much output token was generated by the LM, and what are the total number of tokens, so that you

will be able to see all the information out there.

Right.

So this is also there.

Now we have discussed about all the things.

There is only one message that is remaining.

That is nothing but two messages.

Now already in our previous example, we have understood about tools, tools, messages, nothing.

But it's just like an output that is provided by the tools, right?

So whenever an LLM require a help of a tool, it will go ahead and make a tool call.

And whenever that tool specifically gets executed, it is just going to go ahead and give you the output

okay.

So finally let's go ahead and talk about tool okay.

And here I will be taking another example.

Right.

So here you can see I've used a message and tool message.

In the message I've empty content.

But we are making a tool call okay.

The name of the tool that we are going to make is get whether argument is nothing but location as San

Francisco.

And we have also used ID whether result whatever we are basically getting, we have hard coded it.

Now I'm using this tool message with content is equal to whether result and tool underscore ID.

Now see I've asked the question what's the weather in San Francisco then I message is basically given

from here okay.

And then tool message is nothing but the output that we get from here after executing the weather result.

So now if I go ahead and execute this and probably go ahead and see the response, I should be able

to get the output as, okay.

Uh, one more very important thing is that if you see this specific tool message okay, so if I go ahead

and see my tool message, it is nothing, but it is coming as a tool message.

Okay.

And once this tool message is there, we are giving as an input to the model.

So that is the reason model dot invoke of messages.

When we execute we are getting the response as message.

So I hope you got an idea.

With respect to different types of messages, you can go ahead and try it out, explore more about it.

You know, uh, since this is the updated version of Lang Chain, uh, my responsibility is to cover

all this specific topic as the updates are basically coming up.

Okay.

Now, uh, as we go ahead, we'll also be talking about different structured output where we talk about

pydantic, we talk about nested structures, we talk about type dict.

Uh, so that part we will be covering now.So now we are going to discuss about structured output.

Till now we have already seen messages.

We have also got to know about the different type of message prompts like system message, human message,

AI message and tool message.

And we also saw multiple examples and how to implement it with the help of long chain.

Now in the structured output why is structured output actually required.

Okay.

Now see guys we will definitely be using different different LMS.

And we want this LM models to be requested in such a way that.

So they provide the response in a format matching a given schema.

So let's say that hey I am requesting a LM model to write me an essay on some specific topic.

And I definitely want the response of that LM model to follow some structure.

And that is where I would definitely want some kind of structured output.

Right.

So this is where we implement or we make the LM to give a kind of structured output, and we do it by

using different techniques.

Some of the techniques are like pedantic.

We can also use type dict.

We can use data classes and that is what we will be discussing in this particular section.

Okay.

So over here you can see I have written a very detailed explanation about structured output.

It says that model can be requested to provide the response in a format matching a given schema.

This is useful for ensuring the output can be easily parsed and be used in subsequent processes.

Long chain supports multiple schema types and methods for enforcing structured output.

So the first technique that we are going to use, the first type that we are going to use is something

called as Pydantic.

Now Pydantic model.

It provides a rich feature set with field validation, description and nested structure.

So I will show you one example, like how we can create a structured output from the LM specifically

for the LM response itself.

Right.

So first of all what I will do I will go ahead and import OS along with this.

What I am actually going to do is that I will also go ahead.

And the first step is obviously I have to load my LM model.

Right.

So I'll write from dot chat models import init underscore chat underscore models.

Right.

Then I will write OS dot environ.

And here I'm going to specifically write Grock underscore API underscore key is equal to OS dot get

env.

Since I'm actually going to use my grok API key right.

So I'll write underscore API underscore key.

Now the model that I'm actually going to use is nothing.

But I will be using this grok model grok colon.

And the model name is nothing but Gwen.

And we will be using Gwen 332 billion parameters model.

It's a reasoning model right.

So this is the model that I have.

So here you can see cannot import name any chat models.

Okay let's see what is the issue.

So here you can see there is something called as init chat model.

Uh we had made a different import but it's okay.

We have actually loaded our model.

Now let me quickly show you that how with the help of Pydantic, you will be able to generate a structured

output.

The best part about Pydantic is that it also has field validation descriptions and also nested structure.

So first of all, in order to use Pydantic we need to import one library which is called as from Pydantic

import base models okay comma field.

So this field is what we are going to specifically use in order to use field validation.

Now here let's say I want my LLM to give the output in a some kind of structured schema okay.

Now what schema it will basically follow.

So what I will do for that I will create let's say a class called as movie.

And inside this movie, we will inherit with this specific base model.

Okay.

The base model that we have imported over here.

And if you see that it is nothing, but it is a base class for creating Pydantic models.

Right.

And Pydantic model has a very important property that it provides you field validation description.

And it also provides you nested structure.

Now let's say my structured output from the LM needs to have different fields okay.

So one of the field is nothing but title.

So let's say this title should be of only type string okay.

So here we are writing colon string okay.

And this will be of type field.

And here I can go ahead and provide some description saying that this title is nothing.

But it is the title of the movie okay.

Now see my LM needs to definitely generate some kind of output and it will generate based on whatever

fields I'm actually creating over here.

And we are going to make sure that this title should only be having string value over here.

If it has a numerical value, then it will give us an error because Pydantic will do this kind of field

validation also.

Okay, the Pydantic model.

Now similarly my second field will be nothing.

But here let's say my year is there and it will be of int type.

And I will go ahead and right field.

And here again this will be my description.

And I will say hey this is the year of this year.

This year the movie was released.

Okay, the movie was released.

And then coming to the third important, let's say that I want to also create one more field.

Inside this it is nothing but Director String.

And again I can basically say this is a field.

Now see you understand what this field is, right?

If you go ahead and just hover over it.

And if you see what exactly field is, this is basically providing you a lot of different, different

parameters that you can set, which represents this particular, uh, variable.

right?

The year.

Okay.

So here I've just given that this particular field is nothing, but this is the year the movie was released.

This information will be very much important for the LM, right?

Because once we are giving this kind of descriptions, we can also set some other parameters like,

uh, you know, we can set a liar.

This will be very, very handy because it will help the LM to know in which field it needs to place

the output that it is coming from the LM itself, when we are displaying that in a structured output.

Okay.

So this is my, uh, director field and the director field, I will also go ahead and write some kind

of description so that it gives some idea to my LM saying that.

Okay, the director of the movie.

Director of the movie.

Okay.

Then I have my ratings.

This is also one field that I definitely want.

My rating can be a float value, okay.

It needs to be a float value because it can have different float value itself.

And then I have my description inside my description, I will go ahead and say the movies.

Movies.

Ratings out of ten.

Okay.

Out of ten.

Now see, this is the output that my LM should be generating it.

So that's the reason I've created a class called as movie and it is inheriting base model.

Inheriting base model basically means it is.

It is just going to go ahead.

And if you just hover towards this base model, it is it is nothing.

But it is a base class for creating pydantic models.

And one important thing is that this Pydantic model has real validation description and all.

Okay.

Now let me go ahead and execute this.

Okay.

Now if I want my model to generate the structured output.

So what I will do I will just go ahead and write model with underscore structured output.

And we will give like what structured output it needs to give of this particular movie class.

Okay.

So this movie class is over here.

And here I will go ahead and define model with structure okay.

model with structure.

So this is what, uh, my, uh, important model is, you know, now, see, as soon as I go ahead and

execute this, okay, I go ahead and execute this.

And if you go ahead and just display it, what is this model with structure.

It shows that it is a runnable binding.

It has uh information from Chad Grok model.

And then it also has this Python tool parser.

Okay.

Now this is really important because now I'm going to display how the output will get displayed whenever

we ask any question to this particular model with structure.

So for that I will go ahead and write model with structure dot invoke.

And here I will go ahead and ask a question.

Provide details.

Let's say I want a details about the movie movie inception.

So if I go ahead and use model dot invoke, if you remember, model is nothing, but it is not having

any schema attached, right.

So here, if you are attaching any schema or any structured output, it is nothing but model with structure.

So if I just go ahead and write model dot invoke and I say provide me the details of the movie inception.

So here you can see this is how is the default output we will get.

Okay.

Once we execute this.

See this is my message.

Okay I need to provide a detail about the movie inception.

The inception probably has to do a concept of planting an idea.

So it is probably providing all the details.

But I don't want all these details.

I want the details in this structured output.

I want it in the form of title.

Year.

Director.

Rating.

Right.

So I should be able to get that.

Now if I go ahead and use this model with output dot invoke.

And now I want to go ahead and create, I am asking the same question.

See over here I'm asking the same question response.

Now if I go ahead and display the response, you should be able to see that I will get in this structured

output, right.

So here you can see title is nothing but inception here.

It got released on 2010.

Director is nothing but Christopher Nolan.

Rating is 8.8.

Right?

So sometimes now this information, I can use it anywhere, right?

This is a vague information.

It has all the information, uh, probably from the internet data that it has been trained with.

But if I just want some kind of structured output, which is important for me, because if I'm able

to generate this output, I will be able to use this in the same structured manner for some other purpose.

Right?

So our main aim over here is that where models can be requested to provide the response in a format

matching a given schema.

And here my given schema is basically following this.

Now that is very much one more very important thing.

Okay.

Now see I'm getting the output over here as inception, which is in the form of string integer, Christopher

Nolan and rating.

Let's say one very important property about Pydantic is that if if this title has some integer value

will have some integer value, then it is definitely going to give us an error.

And that is what this field validation is supported in.

Pedantic.

Okay, because of this field validation, you always need to have values of this title as a string only

for this year you should have it in the form of integer.

If in this director field you need to always have a string, and in this rating you can either have

integer or a floating value.

If you have some other values, it is going to give you an error.

Okay, so that is the most important property about Pydantic with respect to field validation.

Okay.

So now I hope you got an idea about how does a pydantic basically work.

Okay, now what I will do.

I can also go ahead and create a message output okay.

Message output alongside alongside parsed structure okay.

Parse structure.

So let's see this example.

Now you may be thinking what exactly this is okay.

So here you will be able to see that I will just go ahead and do the same thing.

You can see over here from pedantic import base model field.

I've created a class movie here.

This is just like an optional field.

Okay.

And then I've put the description, all the information over here and model structure I've written model

dot with structured output movie and I've written include raw is equal to true.

See one of the feature include raw is equal to true.

Now what this actually does you'll try to understand it okay.

What this feature will actually do.

So now if I just go ahead and execute this I'll create some more code and see the response model with

structure.

Dot invoke will provide a detail about the movie inception.

And remember we have kept this parameter as include.

Underscore raw is equal to true.

Now once we get include raw is equal to true by default.

How the raw message will come that is also displayed over here right.

The initial raw message.

This raw message like how it is basically getting displayed that will also get displayed over here.

And this is my parsed message right write based on the structure so I can also display that also.

And there is also option by including this particular parameter.

Okay.

Now along with this there is also one more important thing which is supported in Pydantic which is called

as nested structure.

Okay.

Now let's see our let's understand what exactly is nested structure.

Let's say I am importing Pydantic and I have this class actor okay.

So inside the actor you have two variables name and role.

Obviously every actor will have a name and role and it is of type string.

Okay.

Now inside my movie right there may be multiple actors, right?

So what I can do, I can use this direct class inside this.

So here you can see I have written class movie details base model title.

This is the movie title here.

The movie release date cast will be the list of actor.

See, this is the same actor over here.

And here I can have list of actors.

So that is the reason we are seeing next structure.

Okay, John.

Genres.

List of strings.

It can also be a list of genres, right?

And budget is nothing but a floating point.

And here you can see that I've created by default.

None.

Okay.

Otherwise we specifically provide some kind of description budget in million USD.

Okay.

Now this way we are using a nested structure that basically means inside the movie details.

We are using this particular actor.

Okay, now if I go ahead and use the same thing and ask the same question model with structure output.

And this time I have written movie details right over here.

Now, if I just go ahead and ask the same question from this particular structure output, saying that

hey model with structure dot invoke provided details about the movie inception, I should be getting

the response in this specific way and in the cast.

I will be getting a list of actors in genres.

I'll be getting a list of genres right?

So here you can see I will just go ahead and display this.

This is amazing.

See in title I got assumption here 20th and cast actor name?

Leonardo.

Da capo role.

Dom Cobb right then the next actor is nothing but Joseph Roll is Arthur actor name.

So here you can see multiple actors are there.

John are also you can see the list off.

This is their science fiction action list.

And budget is one 60.0 now one 60.0 based on the millions budget in millions USD.

Right.

So $160 million were actually spent in this.

So I hope you got a specific idea about pedantic.

The main aim is that you're providing field validation, and you're actually making the model to provide

the response in a format that matches your given schema based on the schema that you have actually designed.

So I hope you have understood about, uh, pedantic.

Now, in as we go ahead, we'll also be discussing about one more type, which is called as type deck.

And there is also one more type which is called as data class.

Okay.

So we will see both of them as we go ahead.So guys, now we are going to continue the discussion for the structured output.

Uh, we have already covered how we can make an LM to, you know, provide a response in a format matching

a given schema using Pydantic model.

Uh, now, the same thing.

We will try to do it with the help of type dict.

Now type dict provides a simple alternative using Python built in typing idle when you don't need runtime

validation.

So whenever we are trying to uh use type dict, their runtime validation is not there as how we had

in pydantic models.

Okay, so now we'll try to do the same thing.

Uh, like how an LM can provide a response in a specific schema wherein runtime validation is not required.

Let's say if I'm actually creating title and we are saying that it is of type string, it if integer

is also getting displayed in the output, it is fine because there we do not focus much on runtime validation.

Okay.

So first of all, to do this I will go ahead and use from typing extension import type dict.

Okay, so we are going to use type dict.

Along with this I'm also going to use annotated.

So this two are the important libraries that I'm actually going to use.

If you see type dict it is a simple type name says at runtime it is equivalent to a plain dictionary.

It is just going to create a simple dictionary in short right.

So that is the reason we don't read runtime validation over here.

Now I will try to use the same kind of data.

Okay.

So here I will say hey let's create a class which is called as a movie.

Okay.

So now I will just go ahead and create it.

Now here you can see I've created a movie dictionary and this is this time inheriting type dict instead

of pyrolytic.

Right?

If we inherit pydantic then this all will have a runtime validation.

But we right now don't require it.

We are saying that hey, we are going to probably go ahead and inherit with uh, python type dict itself.

Okay.

And here first of all my first field is title.

And we are annotating it, saying that it is a string and the description is this.

These are some optional fields which we can keep it as empty.

Okay.

So the next field over here, here it will be of type.

We annotating it as int.

And here you can see the description is mentioned.

Similarly I have director and ratings okay.

So uh this is how we actually create this particular structure.

So now once I have created this schema now it's time that I will call my model.

And I'll use with structure output.

And I apply this particular schema that is movie dictionary okay.

Which we have created it over here.

And I will just go ahead and say this is my model with type dict structure okay.

Type dict with type dict okay I'll just go ahead and write this.

Then the next step will be that I will use this model with type dict dot invoke.

And I'll say please provide the details.

of the movie Avengers.

Let's say this time I'm going to take the Avengers movie.

Okay?

And then if I go ahead and see the response, okay.

And then you will be able to see the response over here.

So here you can see director Joss Whedon reading a title Avengers year 2012.

Okay.

So now you can see the response over here.

Now what I will do, I will also go ahead and create a nested structure.

And this time instead of using base model, I will just directly go ahead and use my Typekit.

Let's say I will go ahead and use my type over here.

I'll use my type over here.

So we can also go ahead and implement the nested structure.

And over here the validation will not be compulsory right.

Uh, let's say if the director is having a string, if I give an integer, then also it is fine.

So here the input validation will not happen like how it happens in Python.

So if I go ahead and execute this.

So here you can see I'm able to see please provide me the details about the movie inception.

So 16,000,001.

16 million.

All the information is there.

Let's say I want to go ahead and try out for Avengers.

So you should be able to even see the response.

Okay, so this was a brief idea about how we can quickly use the Typekit.

All we are doing is that whatever schema we are actually creating, we are inheriting that specific

module right in over here we are using type dict.

In the previous stage we used base model which was specifically for pedantic itself.

Okay.

And this gives you a clear idea like how we can actually go ahead and use pedantic over here clearly,

and how we are able to see the output.

Now along with this, there is also a very important property which is called as profile.

So if I write model with structure dot profile instead of writing model with structure, I'll use model

type dot profile.

And if I just go ahead and display it here you can see runnable six sequence has no attribute profile

okay.

So this is what is the error that we are getting now whenever we try to create some kind of structured

output there.

We should not be able to see the profile.

But if I go ahead and write model dot profile, which was my base model here you can see that all the

necessary information like how many maximum input tokens are there, maximum output tokens.

This specific model can actually do image input.

Does it suppose image right.

The answer is false.

Audio inputs false video input false audio input false reasoning output true tool calling true.

So these are the information which talks about like what all things the model is basically supporting.

And we have used three model over here.

So when three model actually specifically has all this particular uh supporting tools or supporting

features which you can actually understand about the model also.

Right.

So now we have understood about Typekit, we have understood about Pydantic.

Now the next thing that we need to understand about one more, uh, way, like how we can go ahead and

apply this kind of schema that is called as data classes.

Okay.

So now let's go ahead and discuss about this data classes.So now let's go ahead and discuss about data classes and how we can actually go ahead and how our LLM

can create a structured output based on a specific schema with the help of data classes.

We'll be discussing about that.

Now.

See, data class has already been there from Python 3.7 version.

Okay.

So a data class is a class typically containing many data, although they aren't really any restriction

like data validation.

Nothing as such input data validation.

But you can create it by directly using this particular decorator.

So let's do one thing quickly.

Uh, let's take one example.

First of all, we'll start with Python okay.

Because we have already know about Python now okay.

And here we are using GPT five for creating the agent.

So what I will do I will just go ahead and write import OS uh and I'll say OS dot environ okay.

In Y run.

And this time I'm just going to go ahead and use my OpenAI API key OpenAI underscore API underscore

key.

I just I'm using this just to show you how we can actually go ahead and create our agents.

Also.

Okay.

Or open AI underscore API Underscore key.

Perfect.

Now this is done.

Okay.

And here you can see that I have imported pedantic import base model.

And, you know, uh, already in this series we have covered how to create an agent, how to create

a simple agent.

So from lang dot agents we importing create agent.

So first of all I have this particular schema contact info.

We are inheriting base model.

Whenever we inherit a base model of pedantic, that basically means we have some kind of input validation.

Name should always be string, email should always be string.

Phone should always be string.

Okay then we are creating this agent over here.

So here you can see create agent and the response format okay.

This time I'm not using this with structured output.

Instead what I'm actually doing I'm directly showing you how you can integrate with the agent itself.

So in create agent model is equal to GPT five.

We are using this model and we are writing response format is nothing but contact info.

This specific class okay.

So whatever agent this is basically there.

We are going to always get the output in this particular schema okay.

So here we are written agent invoke message role with user contact Extract contact from John Day John

at the rate example.com with this particular information.

So here this is my entire content.

Okay.

And I've written extract contact info from this particular information.

And this information is going to my agent.

Now agent what it is basically going to do based on this particular format, it is going to take the

name over here email over here.

Phone number over here.

Right.

And then we can go ahead and print the result structured response whatever response we have.

Right.

So let me do one thing.

Let me first of all just directly go ahead and display the result.

Okay.

So my result is nothing.

But over here you'll be able to see quickly after I use this particular model.

So here you can see message human message.

Extract contact info from this AI messages over here and structured responses over here.

So if I just go ahead and write result off structured underscore response okay.

So here you will be able to see this is my contact info.

The name is John Doe.

Email is John at the rate example.com.

And this is their right.

So based on this specific schema we are able to get this.

That is the useful property.

About pedantic over here validation is applied on every field.

Okay.

Now similarly if I want to do it Typekit type dict is very simple which we have already discussed.

So this is nothing but with the help of type dict because I really want to make that comparison.

So from typing extension import type dict then we are using from lang dot agents create agent.

This is my schema.

This time we are inheriting type dict over here.

The data input validation will not get applied, but definitely we have provided a schema wherein we

are saying the name should be string and all.

So here you can see create agent.

I will remove the tools.

I don't want the tools right now.

So create agent with model GPT five response format is contact info.

Now I have written contact extract contact info from this information and I will just go ahead and print

my structured response.

So here should also be able to see that I am able to get the output which looks something like this

in the form of a dictionary pair.

Right?

Like it will be in the form of a dictionary, so that also you will be able to see it.

So here you can see name John Doe, email example and all.

Now I will show you how with the help of data class you can do the same thing.

Okay so now I will show you with the help of data class.

So with the help of these are just different ways you can use any one of them.

So first of all what I will do I will go ahead and import from data classes import data class okay.

Then I will go ahead and import from lang dot agents agents import import create agent okay.

And then I will write at the rate data class I will create the class as contact info whatever class

I have.

So this will be my contact info class and how we define a variables inside my data class.

So it will be nothing like this.

We just specify uh, the information over here.

Right.

So this is my data class.

So let me write it properly because of the validation.

So here you can see that I've used name is equal to steer steal Esther the name of the person.

Email.

Esther.

Phone number.

Esther.

Okay, now the next thing is that I will just go ahead and use my create my agent here.

You can also call tools if you have any kind of tools.

I don't have any tools, so I'll remove this.

But the response format will be in the form of contact info.

And finally I will just go ahead and display the response like how we display the result itself.

Right.

So with the help of data class also you can actually do the same thing.

Okay.

Now this is really important and I hope you got a very good understanding that how you can actually

work with data class, you can work with structured output.

Uh, you work with type date, you work with Pydantic.

And here the in the data class, we have discussed about all the three examples right from type dict

to data classes and all.

So yeah, uh, I hope you have understood this particular section.

Now, uh, the next section that we will be discussing about is like streaming.

We'll be discussing about, uh, sorry, we have discussed about streaming.

Uh, we'll be discussing about short term memory and other things.

Right.

So let's continue the discussion.So guys now we are going to discuss about middleware.

Now this specific topic is a very meaningful topic that has been included in Long Chain, and it has

some amazing functionalities.

Uh, what we'll do in this section is that we'll talk about middleware, uh, how you can implement

middleware by different, different, uh, inbuilt functionalities that are available in long chain.

Uh, we'll take some good use cases in making you understand.

So first of all we'll try to understand the definition okay.

So let's say over here the definition is written.

Middleware provides a way to uh, more tightly control what happens inside the agent.

Middleware is useful for the following.

It tracks agent behavior with logging, analytics and debugging, transforming prompts, tool selection

and output formatting, adding retries, fallbacks, early termination logic, apply rate limits, guardrail,

and PII detection.

Now, just by seeing this definition, I know many of you will be confused, so it is always better

that I try to show you with a very good example.

Okay, so let's consider one example over here.

Uh, let's consider an example wherein we take something like airport security.

Okay.

So I hope everybody may have been to airports okay.

So in the airport security if you go ahead and see that.

Right.

So in the airport security, when you enter the airport, right.

When you enter the airport, you let's say you are the passenger.

So let's say if this is your boarding gate or this is your flight, right.

The boarding gate is somewhere on 18 number right.

Now, to go to this boarding gate you have to when you're entering the airport you have to cross to

various stages.

Right.

So you need to cross through security check.

So let's say there is a security check over here.

Then after crossing the security check, you may have to probably go to the immigration.

After going through the immigration, you need to go ahead and board the flights.

And then finally you go to this particular gate number where you catch your flight.

Right.

Now, in every of this step in the security check, what happens.

You know, we go ahead and apply or over here what will happen in the security check.

They will probably go ahead and see your luggage what is there in the luggage and all.

Like you should not be carrying any batteries.

That kind of check will happen.

So this I can basically say this as my middleware one.

Okay.

So I'm going to probably go ahead and implement one middleware over here.

Okay.

Let me write it much more properly so that you should be able to understand.

Right.

So here what I can do I can go ahead and develop my middleware one over here And this middleware.

One functionality is that it will go ahead and do all the necessary check that is required, so that

with respect to luggage, with respect to other things.

Now the second thing over here in the immigration counter, right in the immigration counter, what

immigration people will do, basically they check your passport, whether your passport valid date is

there or not, each and everything.

So that kind of checks can basically happen in my middleware too, right.

And before boarding, you know here we will probably go the the people will go ahead and see your boarding

pass right.

And see whether the boarding pass is right or not.

So here we can go ahead and develop our middleware.

Three now just by seeing this example before any important, let's consider that this is my agent one.

This is my agent two.

This is my agent three.

Before the agents we are doing something we are doing.

It can be a normal check.

It can be logging.

It can be exceptional handling.

It can be model calling, right?

It can be anything as such.

So that's the reason we have given this specific definition here.

Let's say it provides a way to tightly control what happens inside the agent.

Now here we are considering this as the agent.

And within this particular agent we can do multiple things right.

We can create middleware one.

Middleware two.

Middleware three.

Right.

And here we can track agent behavior with logging and analytics, debugging transforming prompts tool

selections.

We can do multiple things in short of or different kind of functionalities over here.

Right.

So uh, this is what it is.

See this can be considered as a very good example.

So before we have let's consider this is my agent.

Inside this agent I have my model I have my tools okay.

And this is nothing.

But this is a react agent right.

So model will when we once we make a request to the model, the model will see whether that request

needs to be passed to the tool.

Then the tool will execute it.

Give it give the context back.

And finally we get the result right with the help of middleware.

Now my agent will look something like this.

So agent with middleware.

So in agent with middleware here we will be able to see that there will be different different triggers.

Okay.

So clearly you can see over here what what is the best thing that is available.

This middleware right.

It exposes hooks.

We basically say it as hooks okay.

Hooks means what hooks means trigger points before the agent.

We can add something.

Before the model, we can add something.

This tools calls you can see you can add something.

After the model call we can add something after the agent.

We can add something.

It can be logging.

It can be summarization.

It can be multiple things in short.

So here in short we are adding some kind of hooks okay.

And we are adding this hooks so that we can do something over here right now.

The best way is that we will see, first of all, some built in built in middlewares.

Okay, that is available.

So we'll see some built in Middlewares.

One of the middleware which is very commonly used is something called a summarization middleware.

Now this summarization middleware is a kind of middleware that we can use in the agent.

And its task is only to summarize.

So let's say if this is my LM model or this is my agent, this is my agent.

And let's say this agent is basically connected to a tool, okay.

And this tool is return connected.

And here we get the output.

Now here you can see that what this summarization will do.

Okay.

What this summarization will be specifically doing is that we add this middleware over here.

We add this summarization middleware over here.

So whenever we give any input and once we generate the output let's say after some number of messages.

After some number of input and output messages, you know that this messages list will keep on growing.

So if I apply this summarization middleware, what it is going to do, it is just going to summarize

this entire list of messages after it reaches some some, some number, let's say after it reaches some

count after after ten messages.

I want this to summarize.

Right.

All these ten messages I want to summarize.

Then what we can do.

We can apply the summarization middleware within the agent.

And its task will be that once it reaches ten, when once the count of the message reaches reaches ten,

we are just going to quickly summarize the message and the summarization of the message will be taken

care by the LM.

Right.

So this kind of middleware we can add it over here okay.

Similarly there are other middleware.

One of the middleware example is human in the loop feedback I can basically say human in the feedback.

So this summarization also this middleware.

Also I can add there is a model tool calling.

There is one more, uh very good uh built in middleware.

And there are list of middlewares which can basically use it like model call limit okay.

Model call limit basically means uh, what limit the number of models to prevent, uh, you know, excessive

cost.

So they are there many.

Okay.

I'll just show you the I'll just show you the documentation.

So here you can see I have summarization model.

It automatically summarizes conversation history when approaching token limits.

Human in the loop it says pause the execution for human approval of tool calls.

Then you have model call limits.

Limit the number of model calls to prevent excessive cost.

Then you have tool call limit control tool execution.

By limiting to all accounts you have model fallback to do list tool selector tool retry.

So many different options are there.

Okay.

So we I will now go ahead and show you that how you can go ahead and apply this middleware itself.

Right.

So first of all what I will do I will go ahead and quickly open my Jupyter notebook.

So this is my some middleware over here.

You can see I will close this.

Okay.

This is my middleware code.

So first of all we go ahead and import.

Or we go ahead and load our environment variable with open API key okay.

Now the next step is that we will go ahead and write our code.

Now writing our code is very simple over here okay.

Here first of all we will go ahead with our summarization.

Summarization middleware okay.

Summarization middleware.

Again it is not possible to cover all the different types of middleware that is available over here.

But I'll try my level best to cover some very important so that you can independently do all the things,

Uh, you know, after seeing some examples.

Okay.

Because at the end of the day, it's up to you for what kind of use cases you are specifically using

this.

Okay.

So let's go ahead with the summarization now summarization middleware I will also go ahead and probably

provide you some definition over here.

Okay.

So here you can see it automatically summarizes.

So let me see I will try to provide you a material which will be very meaningful.

And you should be able to read it later on.

So summarization middleware is nothing, but it automatically summarizes conversation history when approaching

token limits, preserving recent messages while compressing the older context.

Okay, so what it does is that it compresses the older context and it just uses the recent messages

whenever the token limit is reached.

Summarization is useful for the following long running conversation.

So specifically in a chatbot, when you have a long running conversation, it is always good that we

try to summarize the previous context Multi-turn dialogues with extensive history application while

preserving full conversation.

Context matters.

Okay, so now let me quickly go ahead and show you one example that how you can go ahead and implement

this.

Okay.

So first of all what I'll do and we can use different different triggers also okay I will show you in

summarization there are multiple triggers which you can actually use.

Uh there is a token trigger.

There is uh messages trigger and all.

Okay.

So first of all what I will do, I will go ahead and show you how we can go ahead and create an agent.

So from long chain uh, dot agents I'm going to go ahead and import create underscore agent okay.

So this is the first one.

Then from lang dot agents are dot middleware I'm going to go ahead and import summarization middleware

okay then from lang chain dot.

Uh we are also going to go ahead and use checkpoint okay.

The checkpoint is required so that I go ahead and apply some memory also.

So I will go ahead and say memory okay from long chain dot checkpoint dot memory import in memory.

So I'm going to also go ahead and apply in memory so that I can go ahead and apply checkpoints within

my chat box.

Right then from long chain underscore dot messages I'm going to use uh human message.

And then I'm also going to use system message system message okay.

So these are the basic libraries, uh, that I'm going to use.

The first example that we are going to do is that message based summarization okay.

Message based summarization.

So I'll go ahead and create my agent.

My agent is equal to create agent.

And inside this create agent.

First of all, I'll go ahead and use my model.

Let's say the model that I use is GPT four or mini.

Okay.

For mini.

So this is the model that we are going to use.

Other tools you can go ahead and define your tools.

But right now I did not define any tools as such.

So I'm just going to go ahead and keep like this.

Then we are going to use check pointer.

This is for my check pointing the whatever conversation history is that I'm trying to save it within

my local hardware like in my hard disk itself.

Okay.

Now to give the middleware as an option inside this agent.

See, our main aim is that I want to add a middleware inside this agent.

Right.

So here you can see I've given model information I've given check pointer.

So here you can also go ahead and give your summarization.

Sorry middleware as a parameter.

So inside this middleware you can give a list of middleware like what all middleware you really want

to apply.

So now here we are applying the summarization middleware within our agent.

So inside this particular agent we are applying summarization.

But when do the summarization actually happen.

Right.

That is the major question, right?

So inside the summarization we have an option to give multiple parameters.

First of all, what LM model we are going to use in order to do the summarization.

So let's say I want to go ahead.

And it's always a better idea that we use, uh, models that cost less for summarization because, uh,

whenever the message expands, uh, up to a certain count, we are again going to do the summarization.

In short.

Right?

So it is always good that you try to use a model, uh, LM model which has lesser cost, you know,

with respect to tokens.

Then I want this summarization to trigger.

Right.

So there will be another parameter which is called as trigger.

And inside this trigger what we are going to do, we are going to put our condition like when I want

this summarization to happen.

So here I will say when my messages length is becoming ten at least.

Okay.

My input output all the messages that is which is getting generated whenever it becomes ten.

Usually whenever you create a chat bot, this number is a bigger number, right?

But just to show you in this use case we are going to set it as ten.

Okay.

Then I'm also going to say that at this point you go ahead and trigger it, but when you trigger it,

you summarize the previous contest and keep the recent top four messages.

Okay.

Recent top four messages like that.

Right.

So that we get the context and we go ahead and apply it.

So here what you can do.

This is just one of the summarization which I have actually applied.

Now you can keep on adding any number of summarization, any number of middlewares.

Right.

You just need to put comma over here.

Then you go ahead and define your next summer next middleware after this.

Right.

Any number of Middlewares you can actually go ahead and add it okay.

So now this is a basic agent that I've actually created wherein I have added a middleware of summarization

middleware.

Okay, so now once I execute this cell, my agent is ready.

Okay.

Now all I have to do is that in order to test this out.

Right, whether the summarization is happening or not.

Let's check it out.

How we can actually do it okay.

So first of all, before I invoke anything with this particular agent, I want to go ahead and create

a thread okay.

So I will go ahead and run with a thread ID.

And for this I will go ahead and create my config inside my config.

I'm going to go ahead and create my variable called as configurable okay.

And then I'm going to go ahead and create my thread ID.

This will actually uniquely identify a user okay.

So here I will say test one.

So this is my unique user.

Let's say this particular thread is my unique user.

And I'm going to go ahead and do this okay.

Now let's create some kind of test data okay.

so let's say these are my conversations.

These are my human questions.

I need to ask the agent to this particular agent like what is two plus two?

What is ten multiplied by five.

What is 10 to 100 divided by four?

What is 15 minus seven.

And then my LM will also keep on.

My agent will keep on generating the answer.

So here what I will do I will say for Q in questions okay.

And I will go ahead and generate my response.

My response will be using this agent dot invoke, agent dot invoke.

And here we are going to go ahead and set this in the form of a messages.

Because we need to provide in the form of a message.

And here I'm going to go ahead and use my human message.

My human message is nothing but whatever questions I have, which I'm reading in this Q variable, I

will be giving it over here.

Right?

And then I will have my config variable clear.

Then what I'm going to do, I'm going to print whatever response I'm actually going to get.

And along with that I'm also going to print the length of the response messages.

Okay, the reason why I'm printing the length of the response messages to show you.

Because here we have set up that whenever the message size increases more than ten, the summarization

should happen.

And when the summarization happens, this message length will get reduced.

Okay, so here you can see I'm testing all these messages.

So first of all first question will go what is two plus two.

And uh, you know, my LM my agent will provide me the answer.

Two plus two is four.

Then we are going to print that entire response.

And then we are also going to see the length of the message response.

Okay.

And when this length of the message response increases more than ten automatically, the summarization

will happen with this particular LM model.

So let's go ahead and try this out okay.

So here you can see message message two.

Message four.

Message six.

Message 810.

Now automatically my summarization should happen over here.

See now it has gone.

Message six.

And here is the content.

Here is the summary of the conversation to date.

Human asks several arithmetic question what is two plus two is two plus two equals four.

Uh, what is ten multiplied by five?

Ten multiplied by equals 50.

So here the summarization has happened.

Why?

It has happened over here.

Because when my message length got triggered to ten.

Right.

Triggered to ten.

Then it is going to go ahead and do the entire summarization.

And that's the very important property of middleware.

Right?

I hope you are able to understand the power of middleware.

Right.

Let's see one more example.

See one of the trigger is through this way right where we have what we have done is that here I have

applied this trigger based on the message length.

Right ten.

Now there is also different way, uh, one of the way is basically based on token size, right.

So let's go ahead and do based on token size.

This was based on the length of the message now based on token size.

Also, you can actually do it.

Now let's go ahead and do it.

Now here what I'm actually going to do I will first of all import all the libraries.

So these are all my libraries that I'm actually going to import from dot agents import uh create agent

then from dot agents dot middleware uh import summarization middleware.

Then we're also going to create tools.

Uh over here we used human message in memory.

And then this is the tool that we have created.

Let's say that this is my search hotel functionality.

And here I've hard coded some things okay.

Hotels in this and these are all the possible hotels that are available.

Let's consider that this is probably a return from some API.

Okay.

Now what I will do I will go ahead and create my agent.

And this time my trigger will be token count okay.

Token count.

So token count basically means how many tokens is being generated by the model.

Right.

So here I'm again going to use Agent Create agent okay.

And then we are going to go ahead and use model is equal to GPT four mini.

Okay.

And then I'm going to go ahead and use my tools.

My tools will be nothing.

But let's consider that I'm going to use search hotels over here.

My check pointer.

Let's see whether I've imported check pointer or not.

Check pointer is over here is equal to in memory saver.

And then I'm going to go ahead and apply my middleware again.

And this time the middleware that I'm going to apply is nothing but summarization middleware.

And here I'm going to give my parameters.

Let's say the first parameter is my model which is nothing but GPT four.

Oh mini.

This time my trigger will be not based on messages but based on tokens.

So now I'm going to specify tokens and token length.

I'll keep it to 550.

Let's say that if it increases more than 550, then what I'm actually going to do, the summarization

will happen.

And when the summarization is basically happening, we are going to go ahead and keep the recent 200

tokens.

Okay.

So recent 200 tokens.

These are the parameters that is available out there right.

And inbuilt parameters right.

So this is done.

This is my summarization that is basically going to get applied.

Let's see.

Did I miss out anything over here.

This should be trigger is equal to okay perfect.

Now this is my agent that has got created.

Now what I will do I will go ahead and create my config okay.

Config will be nothing but this config.

So that we apply for a specific user and just to display or print how many tokens has been generated,

I will create this function called as count tokens.

Total character is equal to sum length of whatever content is there.

Right that length and we are saying that we are considering okay, four characters is equal to one token,

okay, four character is equal to one token.

So this is what is basically happening okay.

So now I'm getting an error.

Let's see.

Unable to find GPT 40 I've written 40.

It should be four ome mini for ome mini it's okay.

Uh please specify model directly okay GTP, I have written it over here.

It should be GPT.

GPT okay now done.

This is done.

Okay.

Now we are going to go ahead and run it okay.

And we are going to run this test for this.

So here you can see I have created cities like Paris, London, Tokyo, New York, Dubai and Singapore.

And this is my question.

Find hotels in this specific city right.

And we are doing agent Dot invoke.

Then we are counting the total number of tokens from this response dot message.

And I'm printing both these things.

Now here you can see one very important thing is that when the token size increases 550.

More than 550.

Then the summarization will happen, right?

So now let's go ahead and execute this.

This is good.

Okay.

You will be able to see the response.

So here 149 tokens is there for messages.

Okay.

Now this will increase 302 then 456.

Then when it increases to 550.

So see now from 456 it has become 396.

That basically means uh, over here after this 550 had expanded.

So we are able to do the summarization.

So after 396 again it went to 232.

That basically means summarization has happened here also.

See here is the summary.

Here is the summary.

And here also summary right.

So the summary is basically happening over here right.

And based on this you are basically getting the response okay including the grand hotels all this information.

So summarization is specifically happening once your 552 tokens is getting over.

Okay now this is one more way and one more way.

I want to go ahead with, you know, which is basically called as based on fraction.

Okay.

Now what is based on fraction.

Now based on fraction it is going to apply okay.

Here.

This time I will copy and paste some code.

And you you can just go ahead and see to it okay.

So here you can see I have my search hotels.

This time the trigger will be based on fraction not on token and fraction.

I have given 0.005.005.

This is.

This fraction is based on the context of the LM model.

Right.

So if the LM model is able to accommodate 160 K tokens, right.

If I give the fraction as 0.005, that basically means 0.5 of six of that many number of tokens is equal

to 640 tokens.

That is what I have given as an example.

Okay.

We can also convert that.

So it is based on different different LM context size.

Here we are going to use fraction okay.

So fraction is 0.005.

That basically means 0.5 percent 0.002.

That is nothing but 0.2%.

And here again, you can see I'm counting the count tokens.

Everything is same.

And here we are using config.

And here you can also go ahead and see the fraction.

So whenever the this fraction increases 0.005 then we are good to go see 0.9.

Here 133 tokens .15.21.

Whenever it reaches 0.5 okay, 0.5%.

You can see if it does not reaches 0.5.

That basically means summarization.

So here it has increased.

So here you can see summary of the conversation.

It has increased from here to.

And what we have done is that here the summary has been created.

Right.

So that basically means the percentage of the token has got the fraction has got increased.

Right.

So this was just about summarization.

And three types we have learned one is based on token size.

One is based on, uh, you know, the number of messages and.

All right.

And, uh, an amazing, uh, summarization technique.

And if you go ahead and see this is the summarization over here, you can see some examples.

But I have probably given you a very good example.

And there are also other built in, uh, middleware.

Now you can use any of them like tool called limit.

You know how to apply it.

So inside the middleware you go ahead and apply it like this.

Right.

And let's say you want to probably go ahead and apply model fallback right.

So model fallback basically means from one model.

If some model is not there you can fall back to the other model.

Right.

Let's say if this API cost or API key is not working, then it will fall back to the other model, right?

So what I will show you is that in the next section, I will show you how you can also go ahead and

apply human in the loop.

A very good example because human feedback is always required, right?

Whenever a task is basically happening in the agent.

And that is what we are basically going to do.

Go ahead and discuss.

But I hope you got a clear idea about summarization middleware.So now we are going to continue a discussion with respect to middleware.

And we are going to discuss one more type which is called as human in the loop okay.

And this is a very important functionality in terms of middleware.

So here what this does is that it pauses agent execution for human approval editing or rejection of

a tool call before they execute.

Human in the loop is useful for the following high stakes operation require human approval like database

rights.

Financial transaction compliance workflows where human oversight is mandatory.

Long running conversation where human feedback guides the agent.

Okay, now let me just open my scribble notebook and let me talk more about it.

Let's say that I have a specific agent and my human in the loop is actually required.

Let's say this agent, uh, does some kind of task.

Okay.

And whenever we talk about agent, these are basically autonomous agent or autonomous agent.

And when we say autonomous agent, that basically means without much human intervention, it will be

able to do some specific task.

Let's say this agent actually does a work and it is a critical work, let's say with respect to financial

transaction.

Okay.

Financial transaction.

Now when I say financial transaction let's say this agent helps me to buy stocks okay.

Now let's say and see this is definitely a very critical task.

I hope you agree with this.

This is a critical task.

We cannot just directly we cannot, uh, you know, completely be dependent on the agent to do this

specific task.

Some kind of human intervention is definitely required.

Let's say for the next day, the agent is going to probably go ahead and buy a stock and, uh, you

know, automatically goes and does some kind of mistake.

So there may be a huge loss of finance in this side.

So we cannot be completely dependent on the autonomous agent.

What we can actually do is that we can add a human over here.

Right?

And we can make sure that whenever an agent takes any decision in this kind of critical task, first

of all, it will go ahead and request this human to provide a confirmation.

Right.

And that is the reason we say human in the loop, right?

We are always asking feedbacks to the human being because at the end of the day, uh, unless until

this feedback is not given to the agent, this kind of task will not get completed.

Right.

And this is really important because for any kind of critical task, we need to have human intervention.

Intervention because there may be mistakes that may that an agent can make that an LLM can specifically

make.

Right.

So now we are going to understand how we can actually go ahead and implement this kind of middleware.

Okay.

So here you can see I have I'm actually working in the same notebook okay.

What I will do is that I will go ahead and import some of the libraries.

The first library is that with respect to create agent, the second library I'm going to import is from

dot agents dot middleware import human in the loop middleware.

Before we're just using summarization middleware right.

Then we are using checkpoint dot memory in memory.

Right now let's say that I want to do a specific task which needs to be done or which needs to be intervened

by the human being again and again.

Basically, my agent should go ahead and ask continuous feedback, you know, with respect to any task

that it does right now.

What I will do, I will go ahead and create two important function.

Let's say one of my agent work is basically to send emails.

Okay.

So here you can see that I have two different functionalities.

One is read email.

Here we give the email ID email content for ID.

This one is there where we are reading the email.

Then second is send email tool.

Okay.

So this basically sends the email right here.

I know I've just written some kind of dummy information saying that email sent to recipient with subject

this subject.

Okay, this is what is my basic thing over here.

Again, if you really want to implement a end to end email thing, you need to use SMTP server and based

on that you can actually do it.

But the core idea over here is that I just want to show you to do this particular task.

I want my agent to be always intervened by human beings.

Okay.

So these are the two functionalities that I have like kind of a tool.

Now what I will do, I will go ahead and create my agent.

My agent will be nothing but create agent here.

The first thing that I am going to use is model.

So model I'll write GPT four.

Oh okay.

The second parameter that I'm actually going to use is tools.

Tools here I'm going to go ahead and provide my tool called as read email tool.

Send email to whatever tools I have written over here on the top, because my agent work is basically

to send a email right then here I'm going to use a checkpoint.

pointer.

This is for my memory.

So in memory.

Savor in memory.

In memory.

Savor.

I'll go ahead and initialize this.

Now I'm going to go ahead and add my middleware.

Okay.

Middleware.

As I said you can also add Summarisation middleware over here.

But this example I want to show human in the loop middleware.

And inside this human in the loop middleware I will have multiple options.

One is interrupt.

So I can go ahead and use interrupt.

So I will go ahead and use something called as interrupt underscore on okay is equal to.

Now where I need to interrupt.

Right.

That is what we really need to understand where we need to interrupt it on what kind of action I want

to interrupt it.

Now in this particular scenario, if my agent is sending a mail, I really want to make a confirmation

from the human being or get an approval from the human being before sending the mail, right?

So here what I'll do interrupt on.

I will write okay.

This functionality which is called as send email tool.

So whenever this functionality or this tool is basically getting called, I need to go ahead and ask

for the human permission.

Right.

Whether we should allow it or not.

So here I will say allowed underscore decision which you can hardcode it okay.

Decision.

And here I will say I will have three important things okay.

Three important thing.

One is approved edit or reject okay.

So I'm saying that there are three important options that you can basically interrupt on.

And human can basically approve it or edit it or reject it okay.

Either it can approve okay.

Go ahead and send the mail.

Either it can say no, no, don't send the mail to this email ID to some other mail, email ID that

is reject edit.

And third one is something called as reject okay.

So this on send email tool I definitely want um I definitely want a kind of interrupt right now with

respect to read email tool.

I don't want anything.

So what I will do for this particular tool, I will go ahead and say, hey, go ahead and make it false.

So whenever I'm making this particular tool call for this particular tool call, I definitely need to

go ahead and take an approval from the human being.

The human being can provide three options.

One is approve, edit and reject.

Okay.

So this is done very clear.

So I will go ahead and execute and create my agent.

Now once I have my specific agent over here.

Now the next step is that what I will do I will just go ahead and create a config file c config over

here I'll say test approve.

Let's go ahead and do the test approve with this thread ID thread id indicates unique ID okay I'm using

message dot invoke messages human message and I said send email to John at the rate test.com with subject

hello and body how are you.

Okay so this is my input that is given over here.

Now once I give this particular input the agent will know okay it has two tools.

One is read email tool and one is send email to.

So it will first of all, go ahead and execute read email to read email tool is nothing but it goes

in.

Read the email by its ID and send email is nothing, but it makes sense for mocks function to send an

email.

Okay, now while reading this particular read email tool, it will not do anything, but once it goes

to send email to it is going to create an interrupt.

Okay.

So let's see this.

So I'll go ahead and execute it.

And now I will go ahead and see my result.

See there is something called as interrupt.

Now why interrupt is basically happening over here.

It is very much clear because we have created a trigger over here right in this particular middle.

Im in, in this particular middleware wherein whenever the send email tool is basically executed, we

need to go ahead and take a permission from the human being.

Now what is basically happening for this send email tool?

Now we need to take approval from the human being.

Now for the approval process.

It is very simple.

I will go ahead and write this particular condition.

Now see this I will write if underscore underscore interrupt is present in result print browse approving.

Then I will say agent dot invoke.

Now see human needs to see give the confirmation okay.

Go ahead and send the mail right then how that execution will basically happen.

For that we use this particular uh this particular library which is called as command.

Okay.

Now this command, what it does is that it executes a command.

Okay.

Now what command.

It basically executes.

It executes, says that, hey, execute the workflow, resume the workflow.

And there the decision type will be approved.

Now this approve if you remember it matches this.

Right.

So we are saying approve right.

So here we are saying approve right.

And for the same config.

Then we will be able to see that the mail will be sent.

So this is the code wherein the human is approving.

Right.

If you instead of approve if you write reject over here it will get rejected.

Right.

So this is the human approval that is basically happening.

So once I execute this I'm getting an error saying the command okay, command is not there.

We need to probably go ahead and uh, you know, import the library, which is basically called as command

okay.

Now command libraries, uh, will be available.

Uh, let me just open my browser and here I will search for long chain command okay.

So long chain command.

Let's see.

There is interrupts.

So interrupt command command command resume.

So here you can see from lang graph dot types import command.

So I'll go over here I will paste it here itself okay.

So here you can see that I'm basically pasting it over here I'll execute it.

Now this should basically execute it now.

Here you can see the email has been sent to John at the red.com with subject.

Hello.

So before my result was this.

Now if I go ahead and see my result, it will basically have the tool message which is nothing but email

sent to this because this is the tool that is basically getting called right.

The send email tool.

This tool is basically getting called and that has executed wherein it has said that, okay, we have

sent an email to this.

And finally the message is saying that the email has been sent to John.

Test subject.

Hello.

Okay.

Now similarly let's say you want to do it for reject okay.

So how do I do it for reject.

Let's say the human wants to reject this okay.

Uh it does not wants to continue with this.

Right.

So for reject again I will use the same code.

Let's say this is my agent and entire thing okay.

I will execute this.

I'll open more code cell.

Now I will go ahead and set my config.

Now here we are basically saying that okay fine agent dot invoke okay I have to basically close the

brackets okay.

Now I'm using this test.

Dot dash reject.

For this particular thread I'm using this unique and then for rejecting I will just go ahead and update

my code.

Instead of making that decision type as approve, I'm going to use this as reject.

So this reject and this reject are matching.

Right.

And then I will just go ahead and execute it.

Pause approving.

You can see it seems that there is an issue with sending an email.

Now if you go ahead and see the result you'll be able to see that user rejected the tool call.

Right.

Very simple.

Here we are using this command okay.

This command is really really important just to execute something in the specific workflow.

Right.

And finally you can also do it for editing.

Right.

Let's say that I don't want to drop a mail by mistake.

I have given some other email ID, I want to change the email ID right.

So everything is same over here.

With respect to creating an agent, I will go to the next step.

I will go ahead and create my config.

Let's say I go ahead and send.

Send an email to rong at the right email.com with subject, text and body.

Hello.

If I go ahead and execute this, I will go ahead and show you the result.

It will be interrupted waiting for the human feedback.

Now the human can basically say hey, go ahead and execute the type edit.

So here you can see if interrupt in result agent dot invoke command resume is equal to decision type

edit and edited action.

We have said that okay name send email to.

We are changing the argument recipient subject and body okay so this was edited by human before sending.

And I'm giving the same config.

If I go ahead and execute this you should be able to see what is the output that will be.

The email has been sent successfully.

Now if you go ahead and see the result, you'll be able to see that the email sent to correct at the

rate gmail dot gmail.com.

Right.

So here we have edited it right.

So for edit you have something called as edit action.

So this is basically with respect to the human in the loop middleware, which you can go ahead and try

it and do it from your side based on your requirement.

Okay.

Now the next thing is that you can still go ahead and explore all the other built in, built in, middlewares

like model call limit.

Let's say you want to have the limit, the number of model calls to prevent infinite loops.

You can go ahead and use this thread limit run limit.

You can go ahead and see what are the configuration options.

So this entire page you can go ahead and explore it by yourself.

And you can do multiple things.

You can do tool selector option is also there right.

So here you can see tool selector middleware.

You can see agent with tools where most aren't relevant per query reducing token usage by filtering.

So for different different tasks you definitely have these amazing middlewares okay which you can actually

use.

So I hope you have understood about Middlewares.